README.md, before:

![latest-release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/SinTan1729/movie-rename?label=latest%20release) ![commits-since-latest-release](https://img.shields.io/github/commits-since/SInTan1729/movie-rename/latest?label=commits%20since%20latest%20release)
# `movie-rename`

### A simple tool to rename movies, written in Rust.

It turns `Apur Sansar.mkv` into `Apur Sansar (1959) - Satyajit Ray.mkv` using metadata pulled from [TMDb](https://www.themoviedb.org/).

This is made mostly due to [mnamer](https://github.com/jkwill87/mnamer) not having support for director's name, and also because I wanted to try writing something useful in Rust.

## Installation
Install from [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/movie-rename-bin), my personal [lure-repo](https://github.com/SinTan1729/lure-repo) or download the binary from the releases.

## Usage
- The syntax is:

    `movie-rename <filename(s)> [-n|--dry-run] [-d|--directory] [-h|--help] [-v|--version]`
- There needs to be a config file named `config` in the `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/movie-rename/` directory.
- It should consist of two lines. The first line should have your [TMDb API key](https://developers.themoviedb.org/3/getting-started/authentication).
- The second line should have a pattern, that will be used for the rename.
- In the pattern, the variables need to be enclosed in {{}}, the supported variables are `title`, `year` and `director`.
- Default pattern is `{title} ({year}) - {director}`. Extension is always kept.
- Passing `--directory` or `-d` assumes that the arguments are directory names, which contain exactly one movie and optionally subtitles.
- Passing `--dry-run` or `-n` does a dry tun and only prints out the new names, without actually doing anything.
- Passing `-nd` or `-dn` does a dry run in directory mode.
- Passing `--help` or `-h` shows help and exits.
- Passing `--version` or `-v` shows version and exits.

## Notes
- Currently, it only supports names in English. It should be easy to turn it into a configurable option. Since for movies in all the languages I know, English name is usually provided, it's a non-feature for me. If someone is willing to test it out for other languages, they're welcome. I'm open to accepting PRs.
- I plan to add more variables in the future. Support for TV Shows will not be added, since [tvnamer](https://github.com/dbr/tvnamer) does that excellently.

Commit message:

Add info for crates.io

README.md, after:

![latest-release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/SinTan1729/movie-rename?label=latest%20release) ![commits-since-latest-release](https://img.shields.io/github/commits-since/SInTan1729/movie-rename/latest?label=commits%20since%20latest%20release)
# `movie-rename`

### A simple tool to rename movies, written in Rust.

It turns `Apur Sansar.mkv` into `Apur Sansar (1959) - Satyajit Ray.mkv` using metadata pulled from [TMDb](https://www.themoviedb.org/).

This is made mostly due to [mnamer](https://github.com/jkwill87/mnamer) not having support for director's name, and also because I wanted to try writing something useful in Rust.

## Installation
Install from [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/movie-rename-bin), my personal [lure-repo](https://github.com/SinTan1729/lure-repo) or download the binary from the releases. You can also get it from [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/movie-rename).

## Usage
- The syntax is:

    `movie-rename <filename(s)> [-n|--dry-run] [-d|--directory] [-h|--help] [-v|--version]`
- There needs to be a config file named `config` in the `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/movie-rename/` directory.
- It should consist of two lines. The first line should have your [TMDb API key](https://developers.themoviedb.org/3/getting-started/authentication).
- The second line should have a pattern, that will be used for the rename.
- In the pattern, the variables need to be enclosed in {{}}, the supported variables are `title`, `year` and `director`.
- Default pattern is `{title} ({year}) - {director}`. Extension is always kept.
- Passing `--directory` or `-d` assumes that the arguments are directory names, which contain exactly one movie and optionally subtitles.
- Passing `--dry-run` or `-n` does a dry tun and only prints out the new names, without actually doing anything.
- Passing `-nd` or `-dn` does a dry run in directory mode.
- Passing `--help` or `-h` shows help and exits.
- Passing `--version` or `-v` shows version and exits.

## Notes
- Currently, it only supports names in English. It should be easy to turn it into a configurable option. Since for movies in all the languages I know, English name is usually provided, it's a non-feature for me. If someone is willing to test it out for other languages, they're welcome. I'm open to accepting PRs.
- I plan to add more variables in the future. Support for TV Shows will not be added, since [tvnamer](https://github.com/dbr/tvnamer) does that excellently.
